# Shop Inventory Analysis

## Quickstart

1. Download input files: `coding_challenge_inventory.csv`, `coding_challenge_meta.csv` and `coding_challenge_prices.csv` into `etl/inputs/`.
2. Run `docker compose up -d`.
3. Navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs in order to see the API docs and execute requests.

## ETL

ETL process is implemented using Jupyter Notebook. While it's not the usual way how the production-grade
software is implemented, it's the perfect tool for R&D activities on data. Notebook is executed on the
input data stored in `etc/inputs/` in headless mode using `papermill`. Resulting notebook is converted
to html and saved a `etl/outputs/output.html` together with the results (as CSVs) in the same directory.
Generated notebook describes the processing approach and assumptions for inputs.

Loading into DB (Postgres 17) is conducted via `etl/db-init.sql` script that creates the tables, and
then loads generated data inside.

In order to browse loaded data one can use `psql` shell executed directly on the container:

```
$ docker compose exec db psql -U postgres
```

### ETL tests

There is only one test, called `01_end_to_end`. It contains sample inputs with all products types (regular, one with variant, one with case, one with both alternates) and data issues found in input files (UPC duplicates and malformed supplier) in order to test the logic behaviour and avoid regression. The test executes notebook on inputs and compares outputs with expected ones (manually curated). In order to run test:

1. Create virtualenv and activate it.
2. Install runtime and test dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt`
3. Run tests: `pytest tests/`

## API

API implementation is based on FastAPI with SQLAlchemy. Code resides in `api/` directory inside
`products_api` module. There are only 3 files:

* `main.py` -> REST API implementation, REST models and documentation
* `models.py` -> database models, autogenerated from Postgres using [sqlacodegen](https://github.com/agronholm/sqlacodegen)
* `repository.py` -> products repository with business logic of products fetching

### API Tests

1. Create virtualenv and activate it.
2. Install runtime and test dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt`
3. Run tests: `pytest tests/`

All the tests are executed on push to GitHub via Github Actions.
